>> Kyle Simpson: Moving on
to our next special value.
We'll talk about negative zero.
You're gonna have to suspend some of your
mathematic belief for just a moment, and
pretend that there is such
a thing as a negative zero.
And if in that hypothetical world
there is, can we all at least agree
that if there is a negative zero,
basically the only way to get a negative
zero would be to do a multiplication or
division with a negative value and zero.
Because it wouldn't make any sense to
add up or subtract to a negative zero.
It's not like negative three plus
three would be negative zero or
something like that.
So multiplication or
division would be the only way that we
could result in such a value, okay?
So if we were to take zero and
divide it by negative three,
it should result in this negative
0 value should one exist.
And it turns out if we test for
it, we get true.
But unfortunately, if we test for
the regular zero, we also get true.
So line 3 lets us know there's
something weird going on.
How can it both be negative 0 and 0?
And many people stop at line 3 and
just assume well, okay,
I guess there isn't a negative zero,
it's just ignoring that minus sign.
Some of you may have
been confused by this.
I certainly was confused for
quite a while.
When you see negative 3 there on line 1.
You probably think to yourself, JavaScript
treats that as a number called negative 3.
But that's not how JavaScript
actually parses it.
JavaScript actually parses it as
the number 3 then it's operated
on by the unary negate minus operator
to produce the actual negative 3 value.
There is no such thing
as a negative 3 literal.
There is the 3 literal and then the minus
sign is an operator in front of it, and
I find that bizarre.
It's part of the reason why even in syntax
highlighting, you see that minus sign
highlighted as an operator as opposed
doing the same color as the literal,
because JavaScript doesn't
actually treat that as a literal.
What that means is when we
deal with negative zero,
we are operating on that zero.
It's not like negative 0 is just ignored,
it's that we are taking the regular
0 value on line 2 and negating it.
So we are producing
the negative zero value.
But how is it that foo can be triple equal
to negative zero and to regular zero?
Well, the problem is not that
there isn't a negative zero, but
that the triple equals
operator lies to us.
And it doest that on purpose.
If you read the spec, it literally says
if there's a negative zero, return true.
So y isn't lying to us.
Well, this is kinda what I
was talking about earlier.
In the early days of JavaScript,
there was a design aesthetic
that was basically try to be
as forgiving as possible,
try to hide as many warts as
possible that might confuse people.
And if you think about the earliest use
cases, many people were using JavaScript
to translate those Java plugins into web
forms like e-commerce ordering forms and
things like that.
So I can imagine one of this cases
that they really wanted to avoid was
somebody showing up within their
quantity field on an e-commerce forms,
negative zero for the quantity zero.
Cuz that doesn't make any sense, right?
And it doesn't make any sense to a user.
So how could we end up
with a negative zero here?
So, what they basically did was when they
said all the different operations that
could operate on a negative zero,
just make it pretend as if you
were operating on a regular zero.
In other words, try to hide the fact
that there is a negative zero.
Which is why the === operator here works.
Even when negative zero is compared to
regular zero, it actually says true.
That's a strange choice, and it's even
true if you try to coerce it to a string.
If you try to take the negative zero and
call two string on it,
or negative zero and pass it in
the string function then you're gonna get
regular zero instead of negative zero,
which is bizarre, right?
But again, it was because they were
trying to hide the fact that this exists.
So in all of our cases of
how we wanna try to test for
the negative zero, it fails for us.
Even if you try this in your browser,
and you type in foo.
Up until about a year,
a year and a half ago,
it would print regular zero in the browser
console instead of negative zero.
And then it finally started passing it,
because I complained enough to the browser
vendors, the development tool teams.
Because I'm a teacher and
I spend a lot of time teaching people in
web developer consoles, it's frustrating
to me when the web developer console
doesn't work the way it ought to.
And this is an unfortunate fact,
the web developer console is not a true,
complete, totally reliable JavaScript
environment the way you might expect.
You might think, I just open up my
console, it's a clean, empty page.
I have a fresh JavaScript context,
it's gonna behave exactly as if
I wrote my program this way.
That's not the case.
The console is not down by any spec,
and they can do whatever they want.
So it's more appropriate to think
of your console and JavaScript-like
than actual real core exactly
the same global JavaScript, okay?
As a matter of fact,
node is also JavaScript-like.
Not actually true, real, and
complete in all possible ways.
Cuz it turns out that node does a bunch
of funky stuff like wrapping your
code in module definitions and
things like that.
They change the way you might expect
actual just regular JavaScript,
the standalone line of code to work.
So there really is only
one environment that
you can write a line of
code all by itself, and
guarantee that it's gonna work exactly
the way that core JavaScript expects.
And that is to put it in its own file and
load that file in a webpage, that's it.
Every other environment, you're gonna
need to have that caveat in mind,
that they might be doing funky stuff
like changing the way something prints,
because they think it's more friendly
to a developer or something.
This was basically lying to developers and
that was my case.
I said, quit lying to developers,
that's not helping anything.
Tell them the truth, okay?
I fought this battle about a dozen
times on different topics and
I've had about a 50,
50 success rate of convincing them.
Stop doing stupid stuff
that makes it hard for
developers to understand
what they're doing, okay?
[COUGH] I actually had a member of
the Google Chrome developer team tell me,
we don't want the console to be
in an environment where people
author JavaScript in.
As counterintuitive that seems,
that is not a design goal of theirs.
So when it doesn't behave like
a JavaScript authoring environment,
they're like works as intended,
closing the book, okay?
So just keep that in mind.
>> Kyle Simpson: So, if we can't test for
foo being negative zero in any way
that we have meaningful to us.
The stringification, the equals,
all these systems are gonna lie to us.
How do you think we can test for
negative zero?
>> Speaker 2: Check for
reciprocal of its negative infinity?
>> Kyle Simpson: Turns out if we divide it
into 1, we're gonna get negative infinity.
That's the only way we can get
negative infinity with the division,
is if we add a negative 0.
We need to check to make sure
it's one of the two zeroes.
That's what the ===0 check is on line 2,
cuz negative infinity would also
also equal negative infinity.
[COUGH] But we need to make sure we,
if it is one of the two zeroes,
then we can divide it into one and
get a negative infinity.
So this is a reliable check for
negative zero, okay?
Now, you might be wondering, why on earth,
this is a bunch of academic stuff,
why on earth would I care
about a negative zero?
There are some mechanisms
that have been in place, and
I have legitimately actually
used this once in real code.
There are some mechanisms,
which encode into a number
multiple pieces of information.
In particular, they will use the magnitude
of the number, the size of the number,
to represent something like how fast
something is moving in animation, for
example.
And they'll use the sign of the number
to encode the direction of movement.
I use this in a navigation sort of app,
where the number represented how
fast the car was moving on this
map as it was being plotted.
And then the direction was encoded by the
number, wasn't moving left or right, okay?
So think about the moment
when it goes to zero.
If you were to lose the sign, it would
lose the orientation of that little car.
I wouldn't be able to know if
it was facing left or right,
where was it moving when it stopped?
What direction was it moving?
I'd lose that information.
So being able to encode direction as part
of this value in the sign is kind of
an important thing, and we don't want to
lose that information when we go to zero.
That's one example of wanting
a negative zero for capability's sake.
And I'm not saying that's gonna be a
common thing across all your applications,
but it should exist and
we should be aware of that.
>> Kyle Simpson: All right,
now both the NaN check and
the 0 check that we're talking about,
they feel a little bit contrived.
And so they added a new mechanism
in ES6 called Object.is.
I do not like where they put it.
I think it's a terrible idea to
put it on the object namespace,
because it implies that we're
dealing something with objects.
And it reinforces a misconception
that people have said for 22 years,
that everything in JavaScript
is an object which is nonsense.
So I don't like that
they put it on Object,
but the is function actually turns out
to be kind of interesting and useful.
The is function is kind of
a quadruple equals, okay?
If you think about double
equals is doing one thing, and
then triple equals seems
to be a more strict check.
But it still lies to us on the topic of
negative zero and on the topic of NaN.
The object that is, is the quadruple
equals which doesn't do any lying.
My little anecdote for
this is I don't know if anybody remembers.
But the TV commercials for,
there's a brand of men's shaving razor
called Mach or something like that.
I don't know, years and years ago, they
had the Mach one and had the single blade.
And then it was a big deal when
they came out with the Mach two and
it had two blades.
Then a year later, there came out with
the Mach three and it had three blades.
And you're like, all right, it's
getting a little bit ridiculous, right?
And then they had like four,
five, six, seven.
I think they're on like Mach 28 now or
something,
they just keep adding more blades.
So we just keep adding more equals until
we get really quality in JavaScript.
It's kinda the four equals.
[LAUGH]
Now,
should you use Object.is instead of
the double or the triple equals?
In general, no.
In general, do not use this, because it is
not gonna more clearly communicate, and
it's also probably not gonna
be necessarily as performing.
But in the specific case of NaN and
negative zero checking, you absolutely
should use the Object.is, okay?
So for NaN or negative zero checking or
both, use Object.is because it will well,
and true, and faithfully tell you the
answer to your question without any lying
whatsoever.
>> Kyle Simpson: All right,
so those are our special types, our
special values within the perimeter types.
Quiz, baz = 2, what is the type of baz?
>> Kyle Simpson: Quote number,
good, right?
Now, I say var baz again and then I say
type of baz on line 4, what is the type of
baz?
>> Students: [INAUDIBLE]
>> Kyle Simpson: I hear different answers.
Only some of you are correct.
Who thinks it's quote undefined?
Who thinks it's quote number?
Who thinks it's something
other than those two?
Okay, so the trick here is that we
think of line 3 as redeclaring baz.
And people generally will consider
that to be recreating baz and
creating in its undefined state.
There's no such thing as
redeclaration in JavaScript, okay?
So var baz on line 3 is a no op,
it does not actually do
anything at all to the baz.
The compiler would see that and
ignore it as a no op operation, okay?
In which case,
line 4 is exactly the same as line 2,
baz is still in its existent state.
That's why we're getting quote number.
And, what about line 5?
I say baz = null.
And then line 6,
what's gonna be the type of baz?
>> Students: Quote object.
>> Kyle Simpson: Quote object.
Instead of quote null like it ought to be,
it's gonna say quote object.
All right, now line 8,
[COUGH] I take a string, the string baz,
and I multiply it by 3.
There are some languages, for example,
Ruby where the results of that will be
repeating the string,
baz, baz, baz [LAUGH].
That's not what JavaScript does.
JavaScript defines
multiplication as only numeric.
So, what's gonna happen
with the value in line 9?
>> Students: Add the number.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay,
it's gonna try to coerce,
quote baz into a number,
that's gonna fail resulting in Nan.
We're gonna have the invalid number Nan,
and Nan times 3 is still gonna be Nan.
Now, but
what about the type of baz on line 10?
>> Students: Quote number.
>> Kyle Simpson: Quote number, okay?
Baz = 1 divided by 0 on line 12,
what is the value of baz in line 13?
>> Speaker 4: Infinity.
>> Kyle Simpson: Infinity.
And what is the type of baz?
>> Speaker 4: Quote
number.
>> Kyle Simpson: Quote number.
Infinity is a number.
I've actually had people suggest it
should be something other than a number.
It's definitely a number, okay?